[ADP-3387] Add support for private network (#4679)
input-output-hk/cardano-wallet: README.md

## Quickstart

> The `cardano-wallet` executable is an HTTP server that manages your wallet(s).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `cardano-wallet` executable is an HTTP server that manages your wallet(s).

In order to retrieve blockchain data and send transactions, the `cardano-wallet` executable must connect to a running [`cardano-node`](https://github.com/IntersectMBO/cardano-node) process. This QuickStart guide presents you several ways of doing that, which you can later customize to your needs.
```

### Docker

> Select the network you want to run the wallet on, `private`, `sanchonet`, `preprod` or `mainnet`
> by changing the working directory to `run/` + network + `/docker`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You can use Docker to download, configure and start the `cardano-wallet` and `cardano-node` executables.

First you have to choose a Cardano network to connect to. The network `mainnet` keeps track of the real money. The networks `private`, `sanchonet`, and `preprod` are test networks.

`cd` into the directory `./run/$NETWORK/docker` corresponding to your choice of NETWORK.
```

Then

> - start a wallet with `./run.sh start`
> - stop a wallet with `./run.sh stop`
> - inspect the logs with `./run.sh logs`
> - run a simple application that fully synchronize a node and then stop it with `./run.sh sync`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- start a node and wallet with `./run.sh start`
- stop the node and wallet with `./run.sh stop`
- inspect the logs with `./run.sh logs`
- start a node and wallet, wait until they are fully synchronized to the network, and stop again with `./run.sh sync`
```

- `NODE_DB` (default `./databases/node-db`): the directory where the node database will be stored
- `NODE_SOCKET_DIR` (default `./.`): the directory where the node socket will be created
- `NODE_CONFIGS` (default `./configs`): the directory where the node configuration files will be retrieved from
- `WALLET_TAG` (default 2024.7.7): the tag of the wallet image to use, can be `release-candidate`

For example, to start a wallet on `private` network:

```bash
cd run/private/docker
WALLET_PORT=8090 ./run.sh start
curl http://localhost:8090/v2/network/information | jq
```

Then you can inspect the logs with

```bash
./run.sh logs
```

And stop the services with

```bash
./run.sh stop
```

See also [Docker](https://cardano-foundation.github.io/cardano-wallet/user-guide/installation/use-docker.html) for more information about using docker.

### .env file

You can set your variables populating the `.env` file in your working directory.

```bash

WALLET_PORT=8090
WALLET_DB=./my-databases/wallet-db
NODE_DB=./my-databases/node-db
NODE_SOCKET_DIR=/tmp/cardano-node-socket
NODE_CONFIGS=./my-configs-i-just-copied-from-a-malicious-site
WALLET_TAG=2024.7.7

```

### Nix

> You can opt to **nix** by changing the working directory to `run/` + network + `/nix` .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use [Nix](https://nixos.org) to download the `cardano-wallet` and `cardano-node` executables.

`cd` into the directory `./run/$NETWORK/nix` corresponding to your choice of NETWORK.
```

The nix script serve only as a template, you can modify it to suit your needs.
It actually support one only command `sync` that starts a wallet and a node and
use the wallet api to wait for the node to sync, then it stops the wallet and the node.

For example, to sync a node on `private` using nix:

```bash
cd run/private/nix
./run.sh sync
```

`WALLET_TAG` is not supported in the nix script. You will run the code that you just cloned.

NixOS users can also use the [NixOS service](https://cardano-foundation.github.io/cardano-wallet/user-guide/installation/use-nixos.html).

### Running on mainnet

> **Take care when running on mainnet, as the docker compose will expose the wallet port to the world**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Take care when running on mainnet, as the docker compose will expose the wallet port to the host machine, allowing other applications or users to access wallet funds.**
```

Is that an accurate description of "world"? 🤔

> **Prerequisites**:
>     - 200GB of disk space: the history
>     - 24GB of RAM: the utx set in the node process heap

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On `mainnet`, the Minimum System Requirements for a `cardano-node` are high:

- 200GB of disk space (for the history of blocks)
- 24GB of RAM (for the current UTxO set)
```
